---
slug: '17'
title: '17'
subtitle: Hucking to Detling
details:
  '': ''
portraitMap: false
---
Robust Ramble

Herne Bay to Hazlemere

Section 17 Out

Hucking to Detling

OS Map: Explorer 148 Maidstone & the Medway Towns

Total Circular Distance: 8 miles/5 hours

Start: Parking at the Hook & Hatchet pub

Comment: A varied walk in quiet countryside with the added bonus of spectacular views from the North Downs down onto the Weald. This means some very steep climbs. There were problems with paths not being reinstated through crops and others with diversions due to planting of vineyards. Allow plenty of time. Pub at Detling is not open on Mondays and the village has no other facilities.

With the Hook & Hatchet pub behind, turn left along the road. Ignore a turning off right and keep along the road towards Broad Street.

At a Y-fork, turn right, up a No Through Road. Pass Stanhope Farm on your right. At a bend just beyond, turn right over a stile into a pasture. Go diagonally left across to a second stile.

Continue to a third stile and on to a fourth in the far corner. Cross into a pokey corner and go on up the side of a field with a fence on the  left.

At the top stay on the track as it swings left then right, then on towards buildings. Pass a wind generator on the left and cross a stile into a wide enclosed path. Pass buildings of Coldharbour over on the left. Cross a farm drive to a metal swing gate. Go on past a pond to a second metal swing gate out to a road.

Turn left on the road. Just before farm buildings ahead, turn right, upto a metal fieldgate. Cross a stile at the side and go forward to distant farm buildings just visible ahead.

At the top of the field cross two stiles and go forward along an enclosed grassy path. Go through a squeeze stile at the top into a field. Turn left up the edge with a hedge on your left.

On nearing the top corner go down the bank on your left to a road at Coldblow Farm. Turn right. In 10 metres turn left into woods.

Follow the path for some way to a stile into a field. Turn left up the side of the field for ¼ mile.

Reach a white bungalow and continue up the side with a fence on your right. Reach a T-junction with a drive.

Turn left a few paces to a triangular junction of tracks. Turn right still on the main track. Stay on it as it winds up to a Transmitter Station. The footpaths across the huge field on the left are not signed or reinstated.

Continue up to an abandoned metal barn on the left. Turn left on the track up the side and continue as best possible – hopefully on a tractor track – straight across the huge field to the hedge and metal fieldgates at the far side. Turn right along the field edge with the hedge on your left.

Nearing the top corner ignore a metal kissing gate on the left and emerge onto a dirt road. Go straight over and up a drive into the White Horse County Park.

Soon turn left through the fence on your left onto a gravel path. Where the path begins to drop down towards a metal kissing gate, turn right on a path across to woods.

Keep along this to a viewpoint with excellent views of the Weald. Just beyond reach a metal swing gate on the left. Go through this and turn diagonally right down to a second metal swing gate (ignore a stile on the left).

Through the gate continue through woods. Eventually the path emerges on open downland. Turn left down to a wooden kissing gate. Go through and turn right on the North Downs Way with a fence on your right. Follow this for ½ mile.

Eventually drop down to a wooden kissing gate. Bear right, still on the NDW. Finally emerge onto a road and turn right for ¼ mile into the centre of Detling.

The Cock Horse pub is straight ahead (not open Mondays). This is the end of the section.

Robust Ramble

Herne Bay to Hazlemere

Section 17 Return

Detling to Hucking

OS Map: Explorer 148 Maidstone & the Medway Towns

Total Circular Distance: 8 miles/5 hours

Start: Parking at the Cock Horse pub or on-street.

Comment: A varied walk in quiet open countryside. The ever-present  North Downs means some climbing ahead. There were problems with paths being diverted around vineyards. Allow plenty of time.

With the Cock Horse behind, turn right on the road   through the village. Reach a junction at the bottom where the main road swings right past the church.

Here turn left on a narrow enclosed path (basically straight for one mile to Thurnham church). Reach a metal kissing gate and go straight on through new vineyards.

Reach a metal kissing gate at the far side and keep forward once more towards distant trees.

At the far end reach a large open space. Bear right to a wooden kissing gate into trees. Cross a drive and enter a churchyard. Continue through to a road.

Turn left and walk up for 100 metres looking for a post box in the wall on your left. Here turn right along the bridleway opposite for ¼ mile. It’s actually a tarmac road.

Eventually reach and pass through buildings. Go through a wooden equestrian gate to the foot of a road on the left.

Do not turn onto this but go straight ahead on an narrow enclosed path with yet another vineyard down on the right.

The path meets a road at the far end but do not go down to it. There is a path diversion now. Turn right to go down a narrow path by the hedge on your left for 200 metres.

At a locked gate at the bottom, turn left through the hedge (take care with traffic), cross the road to a metal fieldgate and go forward along a field edge with a fence on your right.

Keep forward in the next field to a metal kissing gate and on again to a second. Then on, on, on to a third, then across to a fourth into trees.

Soon exit into the corner of a field. Go diagonally right across the centre of the field to the far opposite corner and join a grassy path steeply uphill.

Soon pass through a fence on your right and continue uphill through trees.

At the top reach a metal kissing gate and bear right through woods. Eventually dogleg right and left t emerge onto a road at Whitehall.

Turn left uphill. Reach a T-junction and cross left to a byway. Go uphill on this uneven track.

After some way, where the path levels off, meet a cross track. Turn right, carefully down a steep bank into a sloping field.

Go diagonally left down to a stile hidden in the hedge below, near to where a straight line of new trees comes marching down the hill.

THERE ARE TO BE PATH DIVERSIONS HERE TO ACCOMMODATE YET MORE VINEYARDS.

Over the stile, go straight up the hill alongside the new treeline to meet the NDW at the top.

Turn right along the NDW for 100 metres to a junction just before a sharp turn down to the right. Here turn left on a path going up through trees.

Cross a farm track at the top and go forward again through trees. At the end emerge onto a road.

Turn left along the road to eventually reach a junction. Turn left to soon reach the Hook & Hatchet in Hucking and the start of the section.
